Cloud computing is not a location but rather a pool of resources that can be rapidly provisioned in an automated, on-demand manner.
    -   Cloud computing is "a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (such as networks, servers, storage, apps and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

Value
    -   Economies of scale
            The ability to pool resources to archieve economies of scale.
                This ability to pool resources is true for private or public clouds.
   
    -   Agility
            The ability to be more agile.
                Instead of having many independent and often under-used servers deployed for your enterprise apps, pools of resources are aggregated, consolidated and designed to be elastic enough to scale with the needs of your organization.

Important Terminology
    -   Identity and Access Manangement (IAM)
            A framework of business processes, policies and technologies that facilitates the management of electronic or digital identities.
    -   Technical Debt
            A software development concept, in which additional future costs are anticipated for rework due to an earlier decision or course of action that was necessary for agility but was not necessarily the most optimal or appropriate decision or course of action.
    -   Distributed Workforce
            A workforce that reaches beyond the restrictions of a traditional office environment. A distributed workforce is dispersed geographically over a wide area, domestically or internationally.
    -   Cloud Cybersecurity Infrastructure
            Refers to the tools, data, and infrastructure that protect cloud-based products from malicious actors.
    -   On-Premises
            A solution hosted in-house and usually supported by a third party.
    -   Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
            A method of restricting network and resource access based on the roles of individual users within an enterprise.

    -   DevOps
            A set of practices that combines software development (Dev) and IT operations (Ops).
    -   Operating System (OS)
            System software that manages computer software resources and hardware peripheral devices, and provides common services for computer programs.
    -   Virtual Machine
            An emulation of a computer system that runs in the form of software and, like a physical computer, runs an operating system and applications.
    -   App Software
            A program or group of programs designed to help end users be more productive.
    -   Runtime
            In computer programming, a runtime environment primarily implements portions of an execution model. Most programming languages have some form of runtime environment in which programs run.

Cloud Computing Ecosystem
        Consists of service models, deployment models, responsibilities, and security challenges.

        Service Models, Deployment Models, and Responsibilities
                Virtualization is a critical component of a cloud computing architecture that, when combined with software orchestration and management tools allows you to integrate disparate processes so that they can be automated, easily replicated, and offered on an as-needed basis.

Cloud Computing Service Models
        As data center managers face a burgeoning population of mobile users, the distributed workforce – with multiple endpoints and cloud applications – is forcing organizations to evolve both their in-house and cloud cybersecurity infrastructures.  

        NIST defines three distinct cloud computing service models.
                -       SaaS
                                The customer does not manage the application or underlying cloud infrastructure that delivers the application. The customer can only create and store user specific data using the provided SaaS application. 
                                        The customer is responsible for securing user-specific data created using the SaaS application. 
                                        The SaaS provider is responsible for securing the application and the underlying cloud infrastructure running the application.                        

                -       PaaS
                                Customers can deploy supported applications onto the Cloud Service provider’s (CSP) infrastructure without the burden of fully managing and controlling the underlying cloud infrastructure.
                                        The customer is responsible for securely storing data and for securely configuring the application.
                                        The CSP is responsible for securing the computer infrastructure and virtual environment and for securely hosting the database application.

                -       IaaS
                                Customers securely configure, manage, and deploy the virtual environment running their applications. 
                                        Customers are responsible for securing their virtual machines, the virtual machine operating systems, operating system runtime environments, application software, and application data.
                                        CSPs are responsible for securing the physical computers running the virtual environment.